as I have already delivered my farewell
address I will try to be relatively
brief but I just want to get some folks
together to pay tribute to somebody
who's not only been by my side for the
duration of this amazing journey but
somebody who has devoted his entire
professional life to service to this
country the best vice president America
has ever had mr. Joe Biden this also
gives the Internet one last chance to
talk about our bromance
behind-the-scenes Joe's candid honest
counsel has made me a better president
and a better commander-in-chief from the
Situation Room to our weekly lunches to
our Huddle's after everybody else has
cleared out of the room
he's been unafraid to give it to me
straight even if we disagree
in fact especially when we disagree and
all of this makes him I believe the
finest vice president we have ever seen
and I also think he has been a lion of
American history so Joe for your faith
in your fellow Americans for your love
of country and for your lifetime of
service that will endure through the
generations I'd like to ask the military
aid to join us on stage for the final
time as president I am pleased to award
our nation's highest civilian honor the
Presidential Medal of Freedom
[Applause]
[Music]
for the first for the first and only
time in my presidency I will bestow this
medal with an additional level of
veneration an honor my three most recent
successors reserved for only three
others Pope John Paul the second
president Ronald Reagan and General
Colin Powell ladies and gentlemen I am
proud to award the Presidential Medal of
Freedom with distinction to my brother
Joseph Robinette Biden Jr
[Applause]
president's lying often other people
don't hear it that often but when some
would say can you get Joe to do
such-and-such he says I don't do his
schedule he doesn't do mine every single
thing you've asked me to do mr.
president you have trusted me to dinner
and that is a that's a remarkable thing
I don't think according to see the
president of Georgetown here is well I
don't think according to the
presidential vice presidential scholars
that kind of relationship has existed I
mean for real it's all you mr. president
it's all you the reason why when you
send me around the world
nothing gets as my mom would say gets
missed between the cup and the lip just
because they know when I speak I speak
for them and it's been easy mr.
president because we not only had the
same political philosophy and ideology I
tell everybody I've told them from the
beginning and I'm not saying this to be
reciprocated I've never known a
president and few people I've ever met
in my whole life I can count unless in
one hand who had the integrity and the
decency and the sense of other people's
like you do as he can tell you it's a I
get to give you advice I get to be the
last guy in the room and give you advice
on the most difficult decisions anyone
has to make in the whole world but I get
to walk out and you make it all by
yourself
all by yourself Harry Truman was right
about the buck stop it is at this
and I've never never never never never
never once doubted on his life in that
decisions I never once doubted that your
judgment was flawed not once not once
we've disagreed and we've argued and
we've raised our voices one other which
we made a deal we'd be completely open
like brothers with one another but mr.
president um I watched you under intense
fire I will venture to say that no
president history has had as many novel
crises land on his desk in all of
history the Civil War was worse the
world war ii was worse for what but mr.
president almost every one of the crises
you face was the case of First Instance
case of First Instance and I watched
that prodigious mind that heart as big
as your head I've watched you I've
watched how you've acted when you see a
woman or man under intense pressure you
get a measure and you know that Michelle
and your daughter's note as well this is
a remarkable man and I just hope that
the asterisk in history that was
attached to my name when they talk about
this presidency is that I can say I was
part of part of the journey of a
remarkable man who did remarkable things
for this country
you